Hi there! Welcome to
this video about
protecting your
digital identity.
This video brings
together everything
you have learned so
far. Digital identity
includes your
accounts, passwords
and online data.
Protecting it helps
keep you safe online.
Your digital identity
includes usernames,
profiles, passwords
and data. It also
includes your
messages, photos and
activity history. All
of these are
connected to you
online. That is why
protection is
important. Digital
identity is valuable
because it gives
access to accounts
and information.
Attackers may want to
steal or misuse it.
Protecting identity
prevents others from
pretending to be you.
It also protects your
reputation. There are
several risks to
digital identity.
These include weak
passwords, sharing
information and
unsafe behaviour.
Phishing messages and
fake links are also
risks. Knowing the
risks helps you avoid
them.
Strong passwords are
one of the most
important protections
. They make it harder
for attackers to
access accounts. Each
account should have
its own strong
password. This limits
damage if one account
is attacked. Password
managers help manage
many strong passwords
safely. They reduce
the need to remember
many passwords. They
also prevent password
reuse. Using them
supports good
security habits.
Privacy settings
control who can see
your information.
They help limit how
much data others can
access. Checking
settings regularly is
a good habit.
Settings are powerful
protection tools.
Logging out is
important on shared
devices. It stops
others from opening
your accounts. Using
device locks also
protects identity.
Small actions make a
big difference.
Phishing messages try
to trick people into
giving information.
They may look urgent
or pretend to be
trusted sources.
Stopping and thinking
helps avoid these
tricks. When unsure,
do not click. Sharing
too much information
can put identity at
risk. Think carefully
before posting or
sending details. Ask
yourself who will see
it and why. Careful
sharing protects
privacy. Old and
unused accounts can
still store data.
Deleting them reduces
risk. A clean digital
space is safer.
Regular cleanups are
helpful. Trusted
adults can help when
something feels wrong
. Asking for help is
a smart choice. It
can prevent mistakes
and problems. You do
not have to handle
issues alone.
Protecting digital
identity is not one
big action. It is
made of small daily
habits. Safe choices
over time add up.
Consistency is
important.
Digital identity
needs protection.
Strong passwords,
managers and careful
behaviour help. Smart
habits keep accounts
and data safe. You
have control over
your digital identity
. You now know how to
protect your digital
identity. Use these
skills every day
online. Stay curious,
stay careful and stay
safe. Thank you for watching.